---
layout: post
title: AsUnit XUL UI for Mac?!
author: Luke Bayes
---

h1. AsUnit XUL UI for Mac?!

{{ page.date | date_to_string }} - {{ page.author }}

I'm sure there is an easier way to make this happen, but I was really glad to hear that *someone* figured out how to get our XUL UI utility running on MAC OSX!

Many thanks to David Drescher for working through this and posting the results of his efforts to the list, following is what he found:

----------------8<----------------

I've been messing around with getting the XUL ui working in os x 10.4 and I thought I would pass what I learned on to anyone who's interested:

It looks like with the new 1.8.0.4 release of XULRunner won't let you start up the asunit ui from the command line.  Instead you now have to use the xulrunner-bin binary to first install the application from the terminal:

$ xulrunner-bin --install-app /path/to/XULUI-Mac/

This creates a folder /Applications/asunit/ which contains a new asunit.app os x application folder.  You can now just double click on the application to launch the ui.

(note: the xulrunner-bin binary can be found in /Library/Frameworks/XUL.framework/ once you've installed XULRunner).

It should be possible to use the provided application structure to create a standalone mac app to distribute via dmg if you also include the XULRunner framework.

-Dave

---------------->8----------------

Hopefully we'll have a simpler binary soon, but in lieu of that, this should at least help the Mac folks get some traction.


Thanks Dave!



