---
layout: post
title: Max 2006
author: Luke Bayes
---

h1. Max 2006

{{ page.date | date_to_string }} - {{ page.author }}

We just got back in town from Vegas for the Max conference last night and I wanted to blog a little bit about a few different things...

First off, we promised to post our presentation materials, so here they are:
# <a href="/DesignPatternsInActionScript3-src.zip">Source code from the project we demoed</a> <i>(6 KB)</i>
# <a href="/DesignPatternsInActionScript3-ppt.zip">Powerpoint doc</a> <i>(5 MB)</i>

Secondly, I feel like our presentation on Thursday went exceptionally well, but the one on Wednesday could have been better. I'm not going to lament it too much - or try to make excuses - but suffice to say that neither of us feels our performance on Wednesday met our expectations. 

If you agree with us about Wednesday, you have our apologies, if you disagree, well, we both appreciate the support!

Finally, I wanted to express some real gratitude for some of the other presentations that I was able to attend. I have to say that I was absolutely blown away by both the quantity and quality of the presentations that I attended, following are some highlights from my somewhat blurry memory:

* <a href="http://blogs.adobe.com/rgonzalez/">Roger Gonazales</a> gave an awesome presentation highlighting some low-level details in the MXMLC compiler and how they pertain to building modular swf applications. I've known that he was a smart guy for quite awhile now, man, I really had no idea. He managed to jam about a years' worth of information into an hour, and still make it comprehensible!

* <a href="http://www.quietlyscheming.com/blog/">Ely Greenfield</a> gave a really good talk on component development in Flex2. He answered a lot of the questions that I've been pondering over the past month or so. But the most amazing thing he did, was present a swf file of a project with snapshots of it at each stage of development. So he was able to step through the development of a Flex2 component, one step at a time, without actually making us sit there and watch him type... It was also nice to see him present a really nice-looking Flex component. It was a Flash version of the new album browser from iTunes and it looked great.

There were quite a few other presos that I really liked, but I'm out of time for now, maybe Mills will talk about some of those...



