---
layout: post
title: Announcing Sprouts! was AsProject
author: Luke Bayes
---

h1. Announcing Sprouts! (was AsProject)

{{ page.date | date_to_string }} - {{ page.author }}

I just wanted to get out a quick announcement before too much more time went by....

I introduced "AsProject":http://www.asserttrue.com/articles/2007/04/04/introducing-asproject  in April and have since been redesigning it under a new, much more manageable project called "Sprouts":http://code.google.com/p/projectsprouts. Just yesterday it reached a point where it's at least testable on both OS X and Windows (with Cygwin).

I'm looking for some help getting it production ready (check out the "issues list":http://code.google.com/p/projectsprouts/issues/list) and feature feedback from the community before I go much further.

Please check it out and "let me know":http://groups.google.com/group/projectsprouts what you think, what it needs, and what doesn't work the way you expect.
<hr />
For Flex 2 MXML projects, just do the following:
{% highlight actionscript %}
sudo gem install sprout
sprout -s mxml SomeProject
cd SomeProject/project
rake

script/generate class utils.MathUtil
rake test
{% endhighlight %}
_(Don't use <code>sudo</code> if you're on Windows)_
<br /><br />
The mxml installation will actually download the entire "Flex 2 SDK":http://www.adobe.com/products/flex/sdk/ (40MB), along with the "Flex Compiler SHell":http://labs.adobe.com/wiki/index.php/Flex_Compiler_Shell (FCSH) so you may not want to run it if you're not on a good connection.

<hr />
For ActionScript 2 projects:

{% highlight actionscript %}
sudo gem install sprout
sprout -s as2 OtherProject
cd OtherProject/project
rake

script/generate class utils.MathUtil
rake test
{% endhighlight %}

Finally, you can run the same script with the sprout -s as3 for a vanilla ActionScript 3 project too!

We're hoping to get some "Haxe":http://www.haxe.org templates in at some point, if you're interested in building them, they're quite easy and I'll be glad to help get you started!



